# Day 002: Opening a Win32 Window

We are going to open a window, and then create a buffer to render onto that window.

We will be writing a software renderer before getting into GPU work because GPUs are huge black boxes and hard to really learn from given that lots of things under the hood are trade secrets.

We need a [WNDCLASS](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/winuser/ns-winuser-wndclassa)!

## Why is the WNDCLASS called `tagWNDCLASSA`?

In C, you used to have to declare variables of a struct type by saying `struct foo variable;`. Alternatively, you would declare a typedef after the struct to circumvent that.

```c
struct WNDCLASS
{
    // variables
};
typedef struct WNDCLASS tagWNDCLASS
```

You can initialize a struct inline!

```c++
WNDCLASS WindowClass = {}; // initializes the struct on the stack and sets everything to 0.
```

## Casey and the '0 is Initialization' Methodology

He likes to clear things to zero to start and allow the program to run and handle 0 values appropriately. This is for performance reasons I think?

## Window Class Styles

`CS_CLASSDC` and `CS_OWNDC` will likely do the same thing for our purposes. CLASSDC says "I want my own device context for all of my windows." OWNDC says "I want a device context for every window in my program."

`CS_HREDRAW` and `CS_VREDRAW` indicate that you want the window to redraw when resized horizontally / vertically. Casey used these but wasn't sure if he still actuallly needed them.

A lot of these class styles might be antiquated!

## Function Signatures in C/C++

Signatures only really depend on the types that are getting passed through, which is why when we implemented the WndProc callback we were able to rename the parameter variable names to whatever we liked.

## `LRESULT`

This is a return code for the MainWindowCallback function that we wrote. It indicates how the different window messages were handled, if there was an error, etc.

LRESULT is a long ptr.

## The `static` Keyword

Normally, everything we write is local to the scope in which it is defined. We specify `static` before the type of a variable to tell the compiler that we want that variable to persist across scopes. It's basically a global variable, however the scope in which it defines changes the way that variable behaves. If we specify a local static variable in a function, for example, that variable will persist across calls but still *only* be accessible within that function!

Static variables are a very very bad idea to use in code that you need to ship. BUT, Casey always uses them when debugging. They're very useful for debugging!