# Day 003: Allocating a Backbuffer

## WndProc Stuff

We set up the basic behavior for quitting the win32 app when the close button is pressed by calling `PostQuitMessage(0);` in the `WM_CLOSE` WndProc callback message handler.

## On destroying resources on close:

People love to follow the paradigm of making sure that if they create something, there is some sort of associated cleanup call when the program is done running. People will often do this even if there is no need to do that.

Casey used to write code like that! This is a concept called RAII (Resource Acquisition Is Initialization), or wrapping everything in constructors and destructors.

Casey realized that this is a really bad way to program! He said it was always better to acquire and release things *in aggregate* (remember that malloc & free calls are kinda slow...).

Start thinking about resource allocation and destruction in *waves*!

As long as our game is running, there will be a window. So there is no reason to clean up the window at the end of the program. When the program ends, the OS will actually clean up everything for us! So if we cleanup in our own program, *we are wasting the user's time*. Slow app closures are often the result of programmers thinking that they have to deallocate everything that was allocated in the app on app close.

## `static`

Casey likes to define a few preprocessor macros for different ways of using the static keyword:

```c++
#define global        static // truly global
#define internal      static // local to the file
#define local_persist static // local to the scope
```

Something to keep in mind is that static will automatically initialize a variable to 0.

## Setting up the backbuffer

__Note__: Remember that the `LP` hungarian notation prefix in a lot of Windows types is shorthand for a *long pointer*.

## `StretchDIBits`

A rectangle-to-rectangle copy.

## `LPSTR`

Just a `#define` macro that means `char *`.

## Other backbuffer handling notes

We used `CreateDibSection` to create the bitmap handle and handle resizing of the window.

We used `StretchDIBits` to update the window bitmap in our WM_PAINT callback.

## What is a `void *`

A void pointer is basically an untyped pointer to some location in memory. The language allows us to not have to specify the type of the memory being referenced by the pointer if we need to.

You might specify a void pointer to something and then later cast it to other types as you need!