# Day 004: Animating the Backbuffer

We wanted to make sure that the bitmap info header was 4-byte aligned, by specifying a `bi.BitCount` of 32.

## The `VirtualAlloc` Function

```c++
LPVOID VirtualAlloc(
       [in, optional] LPVOID lpAddress,
       [in]           SIZE_T dwSize,
       [in]           DWORD  flAllocationType,
       [in]           DWORD  flProtect);
```

Casey likes to use VirtualAlloc over HeapAlloc. What it does is it allocates a certain number of memory pages. In windows, the size of pages varies. Sometimes they are 4096 bytes, sometimes they are 64k bytes.

We recall that our program operates in its own virtual memory space, so all we have to do is place the memory 'anywhere' (we set it to 0).

In the last parameter of the `VirtualAlloc` function, we specify a set of bit flags that detail how we plan to use this memory.

`MEM_COMMIT` means we want to allocate the memory and use it immediately. It also ensures that the memory we write to will be completely zeroed out.

## The `VirtualFree` Function

```c++
BOOL VirtualFree(
     [in] LPVOID lpAddress,
     [in] SIZE_T dwSize,
     [in] DWORD  dwFreeType
);
```

This function corresponds to `VirtualAlloc` and frees memory in whatever address space you give it. You can also specify a FreeType DWORD with either `MEM_DECOMMIT` or `MEM_RELEASE`. We used MEM_RELEASE in our program.

Casey notes that we may try to protect memory we allocate later on with the VirtualProtect function, which will give us a nice fault error if we try to use pointers on protected memory.

We specified a top-down display in our `biHeight` value in the bitmap info header.

## The `PeekMessage` Function

We changed our GetMessage call in WinMain to use `PeekMessage`. This took an additional parameter at the end to specify the behavior of the peek to be `PM_REMOVE`. This removes the message from the queue.

The other bonus of using this function is that now our program won't halt everytime it receives a window message.

## Using the Windows Task Manager

Periodically in the stream, Casey would pull up the Windows Task Manager in order to read the "Memory" value of the task process for win32_handmade.exe. In so doing, I believe he was able to check to see if there were memory leaks with our allocation work!

## Why 0 over NULL

NULL is just a preprocessor macro, usually which just compiles down to 0 on most architectures anyways.

## `malloc()` vs `VirtualAlloc`

malloc eventually will lead you to calling VirtualAlloc anyways. In the end you are still having to deal with getting pages from the OS.

