# Day 005: Windows Graphics Review

## Pointer Aliasing

Casey explained pointer aliasing and how it's basically when you have two or more pointers to the same thing and the compiler loses track of things.

He recommends that nowadays if things are relatively small you should be trying to pass it by value rather than through passing a pointer reference.

## Putting the `Message` variable declaration inside or outside the loop

Casey explained that there was basically no difference between the two options, and since the `MSG Message` variable was reused across the loop, the stack would still use the same memory space and it would basically be as fast.

The reason why you would want it in or out of the loop would be to signal the intent of the scope of that variable. When you put something in a block of a particular function, you scope the variable down lexically and force its use only within that block and nowhere else. This is a powerful tool!

## The Errors You Need To Guard Against

The kind of errors that happen every time you play the game and are easy to identify are not the kind of errors you should be worried about guarding against with asserts. These will make themselves known to you and you can just fix them.

You should rather be guarding against the kind of errors that are hard to track and only occur very rarely. These are errors that you may not find until after you ship!

## Grouping variables commonly needed together into structs

Casey made a point to only pull something into a structure once he was sure that the program would benefit from packaging those variables together.

If you do something only for a conceptual cleanliness then you are doing something wrong! You are wasting time trying to write "clean" code.

## Don't go overboard with your type-wrapping!

Casey made a point not to shove the `Win32WindowDimensions` struct into every function that needed its values.

He basically said that once you do this, you and everyone who uses that function is now FORCED to create that structure in order to use your function.

The `Win32OffscreenBuffer` structure was a good example of a struct that was actually supposed to be passed through function parameters, since all of its variables often needed to be used together! The Memory void * had to be a size that was dependent on the width and the height and the pitch and so on.

## Stack Overflows

The prgram automatically allocates a certain amount of stack memory for us at the start of the program. In Casey's program, it was 2 MB of allowed stack memory. He created an array initialized to {} that had 2 * 1024 * 1024 elements on the stack, and this caused a "stack overflow violation". A stack overflow occurs when you try to use more stack memory than you are allowed!

He demonstrated that in theory we could increase the stack size to whatever we want with the -F# command in the build.bat. He made a 4 MB stack size by specifying `-F4194384` after cl.

## Pointer Aliasing Explanation (again)

```c++
void DoTheStuff(int const *from, int *to)
{
    // load from the memory pointed to by from
    // write that fetch into the memory pointed to by A
    *to = *from;

    // B becomes the pointer A plus 8 bytes
    to += 2;

    // load from the memory pointed to by From
    // write that fetch into the memory pointed to by B.
    *to = *from;
}
```

The optimizer will look at the above code and optimize out the two fetches for From and turn it into one instruction, but by the second time you try to fetch that memory has changed, so the compiler can't do that optimization. It doesn't know if From and To might point to the same place.

```c++
int x = 1;
int y = 2;
int z = 3;
int w = 4;
Move(&x, &y, &z, &w);

void Move(int *a, int *b, int *c, int *d)
{
    // Pointer aliasing is when two pointers could point to the same memory and the 
    // compiler doesn't know if a write to one of those pointers might affect a read
    // from the other pointer!

    *a = *b; // LOAD FROM B = 2, WRITE TO A
    *d = 5;  // WRITE D
    *c = *b; // OPTIMIZER: MUST ALWAYS LOAD FROM B, WRITE TO C
```

## Uselessness of const

Casey doesn't get bugs from typing const, apparently the compiler can't actually assume that a const value is going to actually be const. In C++ they allow you to cast a const value and nonconst and that has completely destroyed the optimizer's ability to optimize for consts.