# Day 010: QueryPerformanceCounter and RDTSC

## RDTSC

Read Time-Stamp Counter, or RDTSC, is part of the CPU instruction set for intel CPUs. You can find it referenced in the intel architecture manual in Volume 2, Chapters 3-6. It gets at a thing inside the CPU that increments by 1 every time the CPU retires a clock cycle.

A good common way to utilize this is by comparing the RDTSC before you do something, and then again after and comparing the two in order to see how many cycles it took to complete that operation.

An important thing to be aware of when using it for this purpose, however, is that it measures the cycles your entire computer did in between those two reads. It is not the most accurate measure of how many cycles it took your code specifically to process. You can avoid this behaviour by specifying how you use it.

Also, your cycle counts you measure might be different each time. It's still a nice measure of raw statistics on how much your operations are taxing the CPU, but just be aware that it's not always the most precidse.

## `QueryPerformanceCounter`

What is the actual wall clock time (time out in the real world)? RDTSC is not good for measuring actual real world time. QueryPerformanceCounter is a windows function for timing in real time. Cycle counts aren't always analogous to real times in the real worlds because of differing clock speeds that you might not be aware of, so this function will help us with the actual time! It's another useful way of measuring code performance.

## Unions

A number of things that are overlaid on top of each other in memory. Each thing listed in the union is mutually exclusive, so it can only be one of the things listed in the union at a time. Its size is the size of the largest member of the union.

## `QueryPerformanceFrequency`

Tells us how many increments the clock goes through in one second. Helps us arrive at a human-readable time with QueryPerformanceCounter. The value doesn't change so all we need to do is cache the variable at start.

```c++
// On Init
LARGE_INTEGER perf_count_frequency_result;
QueryPerformanceFrequency(&perf_count_frequency_result);
int64 perf_count_frequency = perf_count_frequency_result.QuadPart;

// ... main loop stuff

// End of main loop
uint64 end_cycle_count = __rdtsc();
LARGE_INTEGER end_counter;
QueryPerformanceCounter(&end_counter);

uint64 cycles_elapsed = end_cycle_count - last_cycle_count;
int64 counter_elapsed = end_counter.QuadPart - last_counter.QuadPart;
real32 ms_per_frame = ((1000.0f * (real32)counter_elapsed) / (real32)perf_count_frequency);
real32 fps = (real32)perf_count_frequency / (real32)counter_elapsed;
real32 mcpf = ((real32)cycles_elapsed / (1000.0f * 1000.0f));

char buffer[256];
sprintf(buffer, "| %.02fms/f | %.02ff/s | %.02fmc/f |\n", ms_per_frame, fps, mcpf);
OutputDebugStringA(buffer);

last_counter = end_counter;
last_cycle_count = end_cycle_count;
```

## The dangers of `wsprintf`

One danger is that we pass a char buffer that is too small to write to! You can compensate for this by calling `wnsprintf` instead, which also takes a length value for that buffer. We don't do that here because it requires an extra link in the build process.

Another danger is that you give a format string with `%`s specified but you don't supply enough arguments to match them.

## Some benefits of using `sprintf`

1. We can call it anywhere there is a c-runtime library installed (consoles, for example).
2. It lets us display float values!

Later, when profiling, in the platform-independent code we can have a superstructure that calls into the platform layer allowing us to more easily check timing information for specific parts of the codebase. Utilities!

Remember, `printf` prints to a console. `sprintf` prints to a char buffer. `fprintf` prints to a file. Lots of fun things allowed by the C runtime library!

## What's an intrinsic.

It's something that looks like a function call (we did this with `__rdtsc()`), but it's really a hint to the compiler that we want to call a specific assembly language operation. Sooooo cool!!! :)