# Day 011: The Basics of Platform API Design

## The `win32_` file prefix

Casey likes to prefix all platform specific code file names with a short name of the platform followed by an underscore and then the name of the file, like so:

`PLATFORM_FILENAME.cpp`
`win32_handmade.cpp` is an example of this.

This makes it easy for someone porting your code to another platform to tell at a glance all the files and functionality they're going to have to port over.

## TODO from here:

TODO(mara): THIS IS NOT A FINAL PLATFORM LAYER!!!
  - saved game locations
  - getting a handle to our own executable file
  - asset loading path
  - threading (launch a thread)
  - raw input (support for multiple keyboards)
  - sleep / timeBeginPeriod
  - ClipCursor() (for multimonitor support)
  - fullscreen support
  - WM_SETCURSOR (control cursor visibility)
  - QueryCancelAutoplay
  - WM_ACTIVATEAPP (for when we are not the active application)
  - Blit speed improvements
  - Hardware acceleration (OpenGL or Direct3D or BOTH?)
  - GetKeyboardLayout (for French keyboards, international WASD support)

Just a partial list of stuff!!

## Cross Platform Portability

We want to make sure it's as simple as possible for someone to get the game running on a different platform. We also want to make it as easy as possible for the game to be performant on that platform.

## In the old days:

We would have the files laid out like this, and would use preprocessor macros to do platform-specific code. 

```c++
#if WINDOWS
// Stuff in here happens when WINDOWS is nonzero
#else
// Stuff in here happens when WINDOWS is zero
#endif
```

You would then do a compile-time #define with `-d` in the build command so that it would compile the proper platform code and only the platform code you need.

The reason why we don't do things this way (we use it in specific locations), is that it makes the job of porting very difficult! We want to be careful about sprinkling our code full of #defines.

The other reason is that it affects readability without the benefit of an editor that collapses the defines!

The biggest reason why we don't write code like this is because it dictates that the control flow must be the exact same across all platforms!! This is bad, not every platform requires the same sorts of control flow! Some platforms might require vastly different operations and structures for doing similar game features!

## The Better Way

We use the PLATFORM_FILENAME naming standard, and then use a single shared header file that will include the operations the platform layer is supposed to be able to perform on behalf of our cross-platform code. This header file will create its own platform-agnostic API, and then non-platform code will call into the header file using that API.

```c++
// in handmade.h
#ifndef HANDMADE_H
#define HANDMADE_H

void *PlatformLoadFile(char *file_name);

#endif

// in platform code, like linux_handmade.cpp
void *PlatformLoadFile(char *file_name)
{
    // NOTE(mara): Implements the linux-specific file loading.
}

// in handmade.cpp
void MainLoop()
{
    void *file_contents = PlatformLoadFile("foo.bmp");
}

// in win32_handmade.cpp
// top of file
#include "handmade.cpp" // why cpp??

// in main loop
MainLoop();
```

This way, the program starts in the platform specific layer (WinMain, for example). Then, when it gets to the game-specific code (in MainLoop) it will call into the platform-nonspecific code. Then every time a platform specific operation is again required it will automatically resolve to the windows platform code that you wrote the API for!

## Another good way, but different!

Casey is doing what is called a "Unity Build" which means you compile the whole game into just one translation unit (remember, these are the .o or .obj files!). Then, for different platforms, he will use a separate build.bat that just links to the linux_handmade.cpp file or whatever platform. One file compile! And it's a really fast compile!!

So the other way is this: Virtualize the operating system out to the game! Instead of thinking of the game as an isolated entity, just literally abstract the specific operation of the platform into a virtual set of calls as if it was running on that operating system.

```c++
// In win32_handmade.cpp
#include "handmade.cpp"

int WinMain(...)
{
    GameMain();
}

// in handmade.cpp
void GameMain()
{
    platform_window *window = PlatformLayerOpenWindow();
    platform_sound_device *sound_device = PlatformLayerOpenSoundDevice();
}
```

With this method, you can see you have created a sort of virtual operating system through which you are setting up what you need for the game in a platform-agnostic way.

So how do you return the opaque stuff (the platform_window struct)?

```c++
// In handmade.h, we declare the platform structs but we never define them
struct platform_window;
platform_window *PlatformOpenWindow(char *title);
void PlatformCloseWindow(platform_window *window);

// Then, in win32_handmade.cpp, we define the structs and the functions
struct platform_window
{
    // Win32 Platform Specific local variables
    HWND handle;
};

platform_window *PlatformOpenWindow(char *title)
{
    platform_window *result = allocate it here;

    result->handle = result of create window win32;

    return result;
}
void PlatformCloseWindow(platform_window *window)
{
    if (window)
    {
        CloseWindow(window->handle);
    }
}
```

## Casey's Way

The reason why Casey does not do the above method is because it is a more expressive interface than necessary! An operating system is designed to do all sorts of things and they need to have a ton of flexibility to facilitate that!

Casey instead would like to define things the opposite way. Think of the game as services to the operating system level to produce the graphics and sound necessary to play the game. When we wrote our win32 platform code, there didn't wind up being much functionality there that we would realistically want to abstract out of there to be callable in the game layer.

Every platform is going to have very very different minutae! Casey likes to write the platform code separated into files like we have been, and just let the platform code be its noodly messy self, isolated from everyone else. Then, we provide just the absolute bare-minimum platform API for requesting stuff from the game and processing it per-platform:

Front-channel:
* Give me the stuff you want to draw
* Give me the sound you want to play
* Here is the player's input

And then in the back-channel:
* Please send this out to the network for me
* I need to read or write from/to a file

You can simplify the degree of complexity your platform API has by not forcing the complexity of the platform specifics to pass that on to the game and then round trip all of the logical operations through it.

Example:

In `handmade.h`
```c++
// we moved the needed values for the RenderWeirdGradient function
struct GameOffscreenBuffer
{
    void       *memory;
    int         width;
    int         height;
    int         pitch;
};

// FOUR THINGS - timing, controller / keyboard input, bitmap buffer to use, sound buffer to use
internal void GameUpdateAndRender(GameOffscreenBuffer *buffer, int blue_offset, int green_offset);

// in handmade.cpp
```

Then, in `handmade.cpp`
```c++
internal void RenderWeirdGradient(GameOffscreenBuffer *buffer, int blue_offset, int green_offset)
{
    // Same old RenderWeird gradient function, now using GameOffscreenBuffer
}

internal void GameUpdateAndRender(GameOffscreenBuffer *buffer, int blue_offset, int green_offset)
{
    RenderWeirdGradient(buffer, blue_offset, green_offset);
}
```

And finally, in `win32_handmade.cpp`
```c++
// In the main loop
GameOffscreenBuffer buffer = {};
buffer.memory = global_backbuffer.memory; // Note that we still have the platform-specific buffer struct
buffer.width = global_backbuffer.width;
buffer.height = global_backbuffer.height;
buffer.pitch = global_backbuffer.pitch;
GameUpdateAndRender(&buffer, x_offset, y_offset);
```

## Putting as much of your code before the inclusion of the windows headers

It's a good idea!!!

## Why is FPS not the most useful barometer for performance

It's usually way more important for us as programmers to be focused on the time and cycles specific operations take. The FPS is an inverse of that stuff and only really gives us an overview of a really general look at overall performance. It doesn't really tell us much!

FPS is for the news! For the marketing!

## Compression-oriented Programming

Write it the quick and dirty way first! Then find the common functionality and start to compress it into functions & structs.

## Why all the static functions

It lets the compiler know that it doesn't actually have to build an export table for those functions and it speeds up compilation!

## A note on including just the `handmade.cpp` file in `win32_handmade.cpp`

Casey did this because there sort of wasn't really a reason he absolutely needed the header file. He likes header files to have up when he's coding so he knows the interface of a file at a glance, but doesn't really include the header files.