# Day 012: Platform-independent Sound Output

## Remember

With our platform API, we design it so that we distinguish between "what services the platform layer provides to the game" and "what services the game provides to the platform layer".

So far we have abstracted only the RenderWeirdGradient code.

## Moving sound across the API boundary

Sound is tricky because it's temporal. It happens over time, and must be playing continuously! Contrasted with video, if we show something on screen, we could potentially lower the sample rate and display at an alternate framerate. Video is a static snapshot in time that is held for a certain amount of time. Sound is not that way, you must be outputting at the same sample rate continuously, any errors will sound bad to the user!

## Casey says...

Most games handle timing very poorly!

## Our sound is small

3200 bytes is just about the entire size of our sound output buffer. We are going to suffer an extra buffer copy per-frame because we would rather present the game with a cleaner interface for writing sound. Just one buffer to write to. There are other platforms that don't have the ring buffer thing going on that DirectSound does, so this method will also fit in there nicely. 

There will always be decisions in making a game where you make a judgement call between doing something that will incur a performance hit or add complexity. Knowing when and where those decisions are, as well as how to balance that, will impact the overall performance of a game. Casey prefers to do the less-complexity-performance-hit most of the time and then later on if it turns out to be a larger performance issue then he can go in and try to work it out. It's better not to start with complicated systems if we can avoid it!!

## The Work

We basically spent the episode pulling out a function into game code that actually writes our sine wave to the sound buffer, and then our platform code handles the rest.

We have a new function for clearing the sound buffer to all zeroes at the start of the game:

```c++
void Win32ClearSoundBuffer(Win32SoundOutput *sound_output)
{
    void *region1;
    DWORD region1_size;
    VOID *region2;
    DWORD region2_size;
    if (SUCCEEDED(global_secondary_buffer->Lock(0, sound_output->secondary_buffer_size,
                                                &region1, &region1_size,
                                                &region2, &region2_size,
                                                0)))
    {
        uint8 *dest_byte = (uint8 *)region1;
        for (DWORD byte_index = 0; byte_index < region1_size; ++byte_index)
        {
            *dest_byte++ = 0;
        }

        dest_byte = (uint8 *)region2;
        for (DWORD byte_index = 0; byte_index < region2_size; ++byte_index)
        {
            *dest_byte++ = 0;
        }

        global_secondary_buffer->Unlock(region1, region1_size, region2, region2_size);
    }
}
```

Here is the sine wave function, now in `handmade.cpp`:

```c++
internal void GameOutputSound(GameSoundOutputBuffer *buffer, int tone_hz)
{
    local_persist real32 t_sine;
    int16 tone_volume = 3000;
    int wave_period = buffer->samples_per_second / tone_hz;

    int16 *sample_out = buffer->samples;
    for (int sample_index = 0; sample_index < buffer->sample_count; ++sample_index)
    {
        real32 sine_value = sinf(t_sine);
        int16 sample_value = (int16)(sine_value * tone_volume);
        *sample_out++ = sample_value;
        *sample_out++ = sample_value;

        t_sine += 2.0f * PI_32 * 1.0f / (real32)wave_period;
    }
}
```

## The Remaining Jank

The first time we start filling our sound buffer, we don't want to be filling it at the beginning from the start of the program. Ideally, we hook into wherever DirectSound is at the time! We want to always do the Lock from the write cursor location.

We might try to make sure we're looking farther ahead in the sound buffer. 

The way we are doing target computation to figure out where to write isn't good, because it doesn't account for how long it takes for our game to get through the GameUpdateAndRender function (now positioned after we GetCurrentPosition on the global secondary sound buffer).

## _alloca vs _malloca

`malloca` will try to do a heap allocation unless you are trying to allocate less than 1024 bytes.