# Day 013: Platform-independent User Input

This episode continues the work of pulling out code from the Win32 layer into a Platform-Independent game layer.

We are going to take input out of the Win32 layer by abstracting generic input in the game layer. Then, the platform layers will do the work of polling for the input necessary, filling the appropriate structs with the translated data, and sending them to the game layer.

## Function Overloading

You can specify two functions with the same name by specifying different parameter lists. The compiler usually is able to figure out which function to call, provided the parameter lists involve a different number of elements or elements of different types.

Casey uses header files mostly as just a quick reference to look at function layouts and struct definitions for corresponding .cpp files. 

## On Writing Code:

#### Write the usage code first! Don't write the background systems that provide it before you've even gotten it working!

#### We also write usage code first so we can get a sense for the erganomics of using the API. We can iterate on that faster this way.

It's important to know the intent of what you're programming is. What we are doing now is iterating *towards* a game API. This is __not__ the same as what the final API is going to be. That code is *allowed* to be sloppy. We are trying to save ourselves work. When we finally ship, all that code is going to be rewritten so there's no point in writing something perfect that is just going to get deleted.

Doing too much analysis on code too early is bad!

## Input Over Time

The player will usually be looking at a frame and performing input based on their perception of that frame. However, we will not have access to that input data for that frame until the next frame is being computed. 

You have to act on the input that you got *last* frame in order to compute *this* frame.

So what do we save from the player's input? And usually we are polling snapshots of the input data.

We will write our input to track the following:

```c++
    Input.a_button_ended_down;
    Input.a_button_half_transition_count;

    // And then do something like this:
    if (Input.a_button_ended_down)
    {
        green_offset += 1;
    }
```

We don't want to average inputs, especially with stick inputs! This will make stuff like quick stick taps impossible. 

## The GameInput Structure:

```c++
struct GameButtonState
{
    bool32 ended_down;
    int half_transition_count;
};

struct GameControllerInput
{
    bool32 is_analog;
    
    real32 start_x;
    real32 start_y;

    real32 min_x;
    real32 min_y;

    real32 max_x;
    real32 max_y;

    real32 end_x;
    real32 end_y;

    union
    {
        GameButtonState buttons[10];
        struct
        {
            GameButtonState up;
            GameButtonState down;
            GameButtonState left;
            GameButtonState right;
            GameButtonState dpad_up;
            GameButtonState dpad_down;
            GameButtonState dpad_left;
            GameButtonState dpad_right;
            GameButtonState left_shoulder;
            GameButtonState right_shoulder;
        };
    };
};

struct GameInput
{
    GameControllerInput controllers[4];
};
```

Notice how we used a union to expand the values of the buttons array into discrete names, while keeping them contracted within an array.

A union lets you put two things in the same place. You are telling the compiler that you will only be accessing one value or the other.

In the case above, we now have two ways to access a button:

```c++
controller_input.buttons[0];
// this is the same as the above
controller_input.up;
```

We are also using nameless (anonymized) unions and structs in the above example, so that we don't have to access the values by specifying the struct name like this `controller_input.buttons_union.buttons[0]`.

## Defining an ArrayCount macro:

```c++
#define ArrayCount(array) (sizeof(array) / sizeof((array)[0]))

// This lets us do the following to any array:
int count = ArrayCount(&input->controllers);
```

Be careful with parentheses in macros! Doubly careful!

