# Day 014: Platform-independent Game Memory

Memory is a limited resource. Every time you do a memory allocation it could fail! Most of the time we won't run out of memory, but it's important to limit the amount of times we allocate memory (memory arenas incoming?).

We are going to grab a flat partition (a chunk) of memory at the beginning, pre-deecide how much space each sub-system is going to be allowed to use, and then the sub-systems will be written such that they must run in that space.

`local_persist` is a global variable scoped to a function!

## The 'Usual' Method

The usual method people take to allocate game state memory is more or less what I would assume I'd need to do as of right now:

```c++
struct GameState
{
    int value0;
    int value1;
    int value2;
};

internal GameState *GameStartup()
{
    GameState *game_state = new GameState();
    if (game_state)
    {
        game_state->value0 = 0;
        game_state->value1 = 0;
        game_state->value2 = 256;
        // etc...
    }
    return game_state;
}

internal void GameShutdown(GameState *game_state)
{
    delete game_state;
}
```

There are problems with that method, though:
* This essentially will litter your code with news and deletes.
* It makes memory management very opaque.
* Each allocation is a trip to and from the platform layer.

## What we will do instead:

We will instead allocate all of the memory for the game in one VirtualAlloc call at startup, and then partition that out to subsystems. This means that once the game starts up and we get that memory, we know that the game *will not fail*.

We will subdivide the memory into a few different partitions:
* scratch space
  * not about storing the game and could go away at any time
  * "transient space"
* permanent space
  * needs to persist between frames for the whole game
  * holds the game together

## Reminder about `VirtualAlloc`

`VirtualAlloc` returns memory that is *automatically initialized to zero.*

Casey prefers to make sure that everything is initialized to zero, so he was happy to find out that `VirtualAlloc` did that for him, and subsequently removed code that initialized some GameState fields to 0.

Another note is that the first parameter of the `VirtualAlloc` function, `lpAddress`, if set to 0 will tell Windows to give you back whatever memory it wants to give you. That's fine for most purposes, but for the moment we do care where the Game Memory is. When we're running on our machines, we can afford to be explicit about where we do this, but out in the wild it is foolish to assume we will be able to dictate where something is!

## Integral Promotion

We ran into an issue with these macros:

```c++
#define Kilobytes(value) ((value) * 1024)
#define Megabytes(value) (Kilobytes(value) * 1024)
#define Gigabytes(value) (Megabytes(value) * 1024)

// Somewhere else:
uint64 size = Gigabytes(4);
```

When we ran this code, it turned out that the number the defines dealt with were just 32 bit integers (the 4 in this case), and when the number got high enough (4 gigabytes is a very large number, something like 32,000,000,000!), it wrapped around the int32 value to zero.

We needed to employ something called integral promotion, which is a way of hinting to the compiler that we want to deal with a 64 bit integer instead, like this:

```c++
// 4 literal is cast to a uint64, which the gigabyte macro will then treat as a 64 bit value!
uint64 size = Gigabytes((uint64)4);
```

## Assertions

Casey defines an Assert macro that writes to a null pointer which will crash the program at that point:

```c++
#define Assert(expression) if (!(expression)) { *(int *)0 = 0; }
```

Typically, we would wrap this in an if...else macro expression to make it expand to nothing, something like `#if DEBUG` or whatever.

Casey doesn't feel like `DEBUG` is a very good way to define this sort of thing, and uses different names.

`HANDMADE_SLOW` for if we care about the performance of the build. (this replaces DEBUG in the above example).

## Reminder

Remember we want to try to minimize round trips between the platform and game layers!