# Day 015: Platform-independent Debug File I/O

In games, file I/O breaks down into two categories:
* Loading read-only assets from somewhere. (READ)
  * Getting stuff off the disk / network / optical drive and into memory.
* Saving the state of the game. (READ/WRITE)
  * Configuration for the game.
  * State of the game-in-progress (unlocks, save game).

Oftentimes the read-only class of i/o will need to be as heavy duty and performant as possible!! The assets you will be loading for that are oftentimes very large.

In the old days, you would have a file handle like this:

```c++
char *file_name = "test.bmp";

FileHandle *file = OpenFile(file_name);
uint8 buffer[128]; 
if (Read(file, sizeof(buffer), buffer))
{
    uint8 buffer2[128];
    if (Read(file, sizeof(buffer), buffer))
    {
        // use buffers
    }
    else
    {
        // error
    }
}
else
{
    // error
}
CloseFile(file);
```

There are problems with this method, however. One is that it makes file i/o code very if-heavy and very hard to read. It also assumes that we're opening the file and are going to pull things from it incrementally. It assumes the file system will maintain a position in the file and pull and pull and pull, and any of those pulls could potentially fail! Every read is a potential failure case and our program will have to handle that.

Also, the threading safety of this method is bad because the handles are very stateful. Every thread would need its own file handle. 

Also, it's totally synchronous. Remember that the hard drive is the slowest piece of the computer!

## The Better Method

We are going to always read files at once in a block. We will tell it where we want to read and how much to read and read the whole block at once. For loading a bitmap file, we will load the whole thing at once. FOR NOW.

When we eventually have a packed asset system, we will move to more of a streaming-based system that will involve multithreading.

The API will instead maybe look like this:

```c++
char *filename = "test.bmp";
void *bitmap_memory = PlatformReadEntireFile(filename);
if (bitmap_memory)
{
    // Use.
    PlatformFreeFileMemory(bitmap_memory);
}
```

This will be one of the few parts of our codebase that will be a round-trip from the game to the platform and back to the game, and really just for the debug file i/o we are writing today!

#### WE WILL NEVER SHIP CODE THAT LOOKS LIKE THIS. OKAY?!!?!? DEBUG ONLY BABY

Now, for a look into what an actually permanent API would look like, see the following:

```c++
char *filename = "test.bmp";
uint64 file_size = GetFileSize(filename);
void *bitmap_memory = ReserveMemory(memory, file_size);
ReadEntireFileIntoMemory(filename, bitmap_memory);
FreeFileMemory(bitmap_memory);
```

## Casey's Preference for Bool32 Return Values

He prefers to specify the result at the top of the function, and then have specific success cases set that to true!

```c++
bool32 Function()
{
    bool32 result = false;

    if (SomethingHappens())
    {
        result = true;
    }
    
    return result;
}
```

## Something to note about file-writing:

You never want to do a full re-write of a file if you're doing something like an unlock system and its associated save file. Your overwrite could fail, leaving players with a corrupted save file.

What you want to do instead is write to a different file, and have a rolling buffer scheme (write to A file, then write to B file, etc.) and you load whatever one is most recent, OR you write to a secondary temp file, delete the old file and then rename the temp file to the old file name in its place. This way you can ensure the file write has completed successfully before you actually commit it to the actual save data file!