# Day 016: Visual Studio Compiler Switches

We are starting cleanup in our Win32 layer.

## Compiler Warnings

We typically want to turn on a certain warning level while developing!! We are going to use `-W4` as our warning levels. With this, we can look at the warnings and fix the ones we agree with, and turn off the warnings we don't care about!

Note the case-sensitivity of these flags:
* Warning Levels: `-W1`, `-W2`, `-W3`, `-W4`, `-Wall`.
* Treat warnings as errors: `-WX`
* Ignore Specific Warning: `-wd####` where #### is the warning number.
* Produce Debug Information (.pdb file): `-Zi`
  * or, we can do `-Z7` to use an older format that plays nicer with multi-core builds. Casey turned this on instead of `-Zi`
* `-Od` to disable optimizations, and make compilation faster.
  * We want this for our debug build because we look at the disassembly a lot.
* `-Oi` to turn on compiler intrinsics. We want this all the time.
  * If the compiler knows how to do an assembly version of something you do in code, it will replace your code with the intrinsic! This is fine to have in debug as well as release.
* `-GR-` Turns off runtime type information!
  * We will not be using RTTI!
* `-Gm-` Turns off minimal rebuild. This speeds up the build.
* `-EHa-` turns off exception handling. We never want to use exceptions!
* `-MD` says use the dll, `-MT` says use the static library (for the c standard library)
  * We want to compile with `-MT` since that will help our game be more compatible on other machines!
* `-FmNAME_OF_MAP_FILE.map` will tell it to compile an extra map file.
  * We compile with `-Fmwin32_handmade.map`
  * A map file is a map of where all of the functions are in your actual executable!

## Note about 32-bit vs. 64-bit builds

Be careful with the size of your allocations! It might be a good idea to cast your sizes to `(size_t)`, because that will cast it either to 32 bits for 32-bit builds, or 64 bits for 64-bit builds.

# Making Keyboard Input work with our new input system

We decided to move the processing for keys out of the window callback function in order to gain local variable access to our input structure. This was achieved like this:

```c++
while (PeekMessageA(&message, 0, 0, 0, PM_REMOVE))
{
    if (message.message == WM_QUIT)
    {
        global_is_running = false;
    }

    switch(message.message)
    {
        case WM_SYSKEYDOWN:
        case WM_SYSKEYUP:
        case WM_KEYDOWN:
        case WM_KEYUP:
        {
        } break;
        default:
        {
            TranslateMessage(&message);
            DispatchMessageA(&message);
        } break;
    }
}
```