# Day 020: Debugging the Audio Sync

We are targeting 30fps in this program, which is approximately 33.333333ms per frame. Unfortunately, we found out that audio latency through direct sound is on the order of 33ms in and of itself! We can't expect our audio to show up until halfway through a given frame. There is just no way to compute the audio for a frame and then have it show up on that frame!

We may have to regress to a very basic sound loop or test on a computer with a very fast sound card.

The loop becomes this:
1. Gather input
2. Update the game and make a render list (render prep)
3. Rendering (the majority of the frame time).
4. Wait (sleep) time
5. Flip and start next frame

What we could do for sound output is overlap the Input and Game Update portions of the next frame with the rendering step of the previous frame on two cores!!! The cost is that we've pushed input back further so we've introduced a bit of input lag!!!

We're going to backpedal a bit and say that we're gonna fall back to something a little stupider!! After update and input has happened we are gonna write the audio and accept that it won't be on a frame boundary. We will accept a certain amount of audio latency and we won't force the game to wait for the audio to finish computing before pushing the next frame. We will know what the audio latency is, so we can account for less or more latency in our loop. In a case when it's much less we will try to make it so we write the audio with some buffer so that it does line up with the frame! One path for latent audio and one path for non-latent audio.

## Low Latency Sound Output Case:

If we are inside the span of one frame then we know we will be audio synced on a low latency sound card. We take the write cursor plus the number of samples per frame. We want to write up to the next expected frame boundary.

`write_cursor + samples_per_frame, target is the next frame boundary`

## High Latency Sound Output Case:

We find that the write cursor is outside the frame boundary, so we know we need to write to just up to the next frame boundary. We add however much we think our latency "safety margin" would be. Safety margin could just be a few samples, so like 1 ms maybe.

`write_cursor + samples_per_frame, target is that plus the safety margin`