# Day 024: Win32 Platform Layer Cleanup

We are going to be tightening up the platform layer and cleaning up the code a bit.

## Fixing an audio bug.

We did some stuff to make our audio better, but we didn't actually use it. As you recall, we were doing some extra math to calculate expected byte numbers for the sound buffer, but we didn't actually use `expected_bytes_until_flip` in our `expected_frame_boundary_byte` calculation.

```c++
DWORD expected_bytes_until_flip = (DWORD)((seconds_left_until_flip / target_seconds_per_frame) *
                                            (real32)expected_sound_bytes_per_frame);

DWORD expected_frame_boundary_byte = play_cursor + expected_bytes_until_flip;
```

## Input Oversight

We added a line to our input handling that would set the `is_analog` state to the value that it was in the previous frame (and then the rest of the frame processes if that changes and sets the value accordingly). This let the value behave more like how we intended, where is_analog is true for as long as we're using analog input, but then will switch to digital if the user starts using digital input and stay in that state until told otherwise.

```c++
XINPUT_STATE controller_state;
if (XInputGetState(controller_index, &controller_state) == ERROR_SUCCESS)
{
    new_controller->is_connected = true;
    new_controller->is_analog = old_controller->is_analog; // added this line

    ...
}
```

## Rendering Fix

We want to see 1:1 pixels to pixels while we are developing (this might change later?) We are going to blit the buffer width and height to the buffer width and height ALWAYS now, no matter what the size of the window is.

```c++
StretchDIBits(device_context,
                0, 0, buffer->width, buffer->height, // dest, this line changed
                0, 0, buffer->width, buffer->height, // src
                buffer->memory,
                &buffer->info,
                DIB_RGB_COLORS, SRCCOPY);
```

This way, if we stretch the window size at all, it won't stretch our pixels out and we'll always see the intended image. We'll deal with the stretching differently later.

## Batch file update

We changed our timestamp dll naming to instead use a random number, with `%random%`, since we don't actually care about the timestamp the file was created (we don't use that value for any processing).

We also changed our `-MT` flag to `-MTd` for debug build purposes. It says to use the debug version of the runtime library, which gives us some extra checking.

## Writing the .hmi files to a reasonable location

We added some functions to help us build path locations more cleanly:

```c++
internal void Win32GetEXEFilename(Win32State *state)
{
    // NOTE(mara): Never use MAX_PATH in code that is user-facing. because it can be dangerous
    // and lead to bad results.
    DWORD size_of_file_name = GetModuleFileNameA(0, state->exe_filename, sizeof(state->exe_filename));
    state->one_past_last_exe_filename_slash = state->exe_filename;
    for (char *scan = state->exe_filename; *scan; ++scan)
    {
        if (*scan == '\\')
        {
            state->one_past_last_exe_filename_slash = scan + 1;
        }
    }
}

internal int StringLength(char *string)
{
    int count = 0;
    while(*string++) // if *string is not zero, we continue to increment count, then increment.
    {
        ++count;
    }
    return count;
}

internal void Win32BuildEXEPathFilename(Win32State *state, char *filename, int dest_count, char *dest)
{
    CatStrings(state->one_past_last_exe_filename_slash - state->exe_filename, state->exe_filename,
               StringLength(filename), filename,
               dest_count, dest);
}
```

This also introduced a change to the Win32State structure that added the exe_filename and one_past_last_exe_filename_slash fields.

## Changing how we get the last write time of a file

Previously, we were using FindFirstFileA to get a WIN32_FIND_DATA struct that told us what the last write time of a file was. This was annoying because it required us to use a HANDLE to get that data. There is another function, GetFileAttributesEx, that lets us do the same thing with just a simple BOOL if check. This function changed to support this:

```c++
inline FILETIME Win32GetLastWriteTime(char *filename)
{
    FILETIME last_write_time = {};

    WIN32_FILE_ATTRIBUTE_DATA data;
    if(GetFileAttributesEx(filename, GetFileExInfoStandard, &data))
    {
        last_write_time = data.ftLastWriteTime;
    }

    return last_write_time;
}
```

## Removing stub functions from `handmade.h` for easier porting

Since the stub functions are in the header, on other platforms this would sometimes mean the stub would get defined multiple times (?).

We removed the stub functions and used 0 instead of setting things to stub functions in our win32 layer. Then, when we actually call the functions, we added an if check to see if those function pointers were not null.

## Changing our game memory VirtualAlloc call to use large pages

As you recall, we set our game memory to have an explicit base address at 2TB. Obviously, we don't actually have 2 TB of physical memory (my machine has 32 gigabytes), so obviously the CPU has to take that chunk of virtual memory and map it to physical memory. This is done with something called a Translation Lookaside Buffer (TLB). If the page sizes are larger, there will be way less memory pages for the CPU to have to work with, and it will make things faster and put less pressure on the CPU.

We want to use the MEM_LARGE_PAGES bit flag in our `VirtualAlloc` call, but doing so also will require some extra work in calling `AdjustTokenPrivileges`. We'll do this later.